Add docs for GCP label/tag imports (#41671)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/management/guides/gcp-tags.mdx

---

> title: GCP Labels and Tags as Teleport Node Labels

Reviewer: "Nodes" should be "agents" since it refers to labeling SSH nodes, applications, etc.

description: How to set up Teleport Node labels based on GCP labels and tags
h1: Sync GCP Labels/Tags and Teleport Node Labels
---

> When running on an GCP Compute instance, Teleport will automatically detect and import GCP labels and tags as

Reviewer: Is "GCP Compute" referring to "Google Compute Engine"?

> Teleport labels for SSH nodes, Applications, Databases, and Kubernetes clusters. Both tags and labels imported

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Teleport labels for SSH nodes, applications, databases, and Kubernetes clusters. Both tags and labels imported
```

this way will have the `gcp/` prefix; additionally, tags will receive the `tag/` infix and labels will receive

> the `label/` infix. So for an instance with label `foo=bar` and tag `baz=quux`, it will have the Teleport labels

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the `label/` infix. For example, an instance with label `foo=bar` and tag `baz=quux` will have the Teleport labels
```
grammar/style fix

so newly created or deleted tags will be reflected in the labels.

If the label `TeleportHostname` (case-sensitive) is present, its value will override the node's hostname.

```bash
$ tsh ls
Node Name            Address        Labels                                                                                                                  
-------------------- -------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
fakehost.example.com 127.0.0.1:3022 gcp/label/testing=yes,gcp/tag/environment=staging,aws/TeleportHostname=fakehost.example.com
```

<Notice type="note">
  For services that manage multiple resources (such as the Database Service), each resource will receive the
  same tags and labels from GCP.
</Notice>

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)
- One Teleport agent running on a GCP Compute instance. See
  [our guides](../../agents/join-services-to-your-cluster.mdx) for how to set up Teleport agents.

## Configure service account on instances with Teleport nodes

Create a service account that will give Teleport the IAM permissions needed
to import tags and labels.

<Tabs>

> <TabItem label="Console">

Reviewer: I'm finding the console instructions pretty hard to read since the screenshots blend in with the text. I think we should put the instructions in an ordered list and indent the screenshots so it's easier to tell when they belong to separate instructions.

On the other hand, would it make sense to remove the console instructions entirely and stick to `gcloud`? This would simplify the guide a lot.

---
title: GCP Labels and Tags as Teleport Agent Labels
description: How to set up Teleport agent labels based on GCP labels and tags
h1: Sync GCP Labels/Tags and Teleport agent Labels
---

When running on an Google Compute Engine instance, Teleport will automatically detect and import GCP labels and tags as

> Teleport labels for SSH nodes, applications, databases, and Kubernetes clusters. Both tags and labels imported

Reviewer 2: Can we describe (and link to) the difference between a GCP tag and a GCP label?

> Teleport labels for SSH nodes, applications, databases, and Kubernetes clusters. Both tags and labels imported

Reviewer 2: Odd that we implemented this for everything but desktops - any particular reason?

Author: It might have been because the imported labels would apply to the desktop service itself and not the windows desktops it manages, but I'm not sure. It would be easy to add if we wanted to.

---
title: GCP Tags and Labels as Teleport Agent Labels
description: How to set up Teleport agent labels based on GCP tags and labels
h1: Sync GCP Tags/Labels and Teleport agent labels
---

When running on an Google Compute Engine instance, Teleport will automatically detect and import GCP
[tags](https://cloud.google.com/resource-manager/docs/tags/tags-overview) (key-value pairs that are
their own resource) and [labels](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/labeling-resources) (key-value
pairs that are specific to each instance)
as Teleport labels for SSH nodes, applications, databases, and Kubernetes clusters. Both tags and labels imported
this way will have the `gcp/` prefix; additionally, tags will receive the `tag/` infix and labels will receive
the `label/` infix. For example, an instance with label `foo=bar` and tag `baz=quux` will have the Teleport labels
`gcp/label/foo=bar` and `gcp/tag/baz=quux`.

When the Teleport process starts, it fetches all tags and labels from 
the GCP API and adds them as labels. The process will update the tags every hour, 
so newly created or deleted tags will be reflected in the labels.

> If the label `TeleportHostname` (case-sensitive) is present, its value will override the node's hostname.

Reviewer 2: This applies to tag or label? Right?

Author: No, just GCP labels. GCP tags are generally meant to be shared by multiple resources, and we don't want to share hostnames between nodes.

---

> title: GCP Labels and Tags as Teleport agent Labels

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: GCP Labels and Tags as Teleport Agent Labels
```
